docs: add ElevenLabs HAL PRD (#276)
enyst/OpenHands-Tab: docs/elevenlabs_prd.md

# ElevenLabs API for VS Code — “HAL 9000” fun PRD

## Summary

> Add an optional, theatrical “HAL 9000” **Restricted Area Protocol** to the OpenHands VS Code extension: when the user/agent attempts a restricted local action (e.g., outside workspace / unsafe operation), the UI shows a pulsating red “eye” and plays a short scripted dialogue (and optional “Pink Panther / elevator music” sting). The script can be played via **ElevenLabs Text-to-Speech (TTS)** for dynamic generation, or (recommended for v1) via **pre-bundled audio files** for deterministic timing and zero API latency.

Author: ```suggestion
Add an optional, theatrical “HAL 9000” **Restricted Area Protocol** to the OpenHands VS Code extension: when the user/agent attempts a restricted local action (e.g., outside workspace folders or operation with security risk = "HIGH"), the UI shows a pulsating red “eye” and plays a short scripted dialogue (and optional “Pink Panther / elevator music” sting). The script can be played via **ElevenLabs Text-to-Speech (TTS)** for dynamic generation, or (recommended for v1) via **pre-bundled audio files** for deterministic timing and zero API latency.
```

> Add an optional, theatrical “HAL 9000” **Restricted Area Protocol** to the OpenHands VS Code extension: when the user/agent attempts a restricted local action (e.g., outside workspace folders or operation with security risk = "HIGH"), the UI shows a pulsating red “eye” and plays a short scripted dialogue (and optional “Pink Panther / elevator music” sting). The script can be played via **ElevenLabs Text-to-Speech (TTS)** for dynamic generation, or (recommended for v1) via **pre-bundled audio files** for deterministic timing and zero API latency.

Author: ```suggestion
Add an optional, theatrical “HAL 9000” **Restricted Area Protocol** to the OpenHands VS Code extension: when the user/agent attempts a restricted local action (e.g., outside workspace folders or operation with security risk = "HIGH"), the UI shows a pulsating red “eye” and plays a short scripted dialogue (and optional “Pink Panther / elevator music” sting). The script can be played via **ElevenLabs Text-to-Speech (TTS)** for dynamic generation, or (deferred for later, after human tests TTS workflow) via **pre-bundled audio files** for deterministic timing and zero API latency.
```

This PRD is intentionally “fun”/non-critical: it must be easy to disable, safe by default, and must never block core workflows.

## Problem statement
When a local-mode restriction triggers (e.g., “can’t touch root” / “out of bounds”), users may be confused or annoyed. A clear, memorable, and slightly comedic feedback loop can:
- Make the restriction obvious and user-controlled (accept/deny).
- Suggest the correct next action (switch to remote runtime / accept a safe path).
- Reduce support/debug time by making the state visible.

## Goals
- Provide a clear visual/audio indicator when a restricted-area condition triggers.
- Keep the sequence deterministic (no “creative improv” from an LLM).
- Keep latency low (ideally instant); no repeated/flickery UI.
- Offer an explicit next-step action (e.g., “Teleport to remote runtime?”).
- Be fully optional, with a clear disable setting.
- Avoid sending user content to ElevenLabs; only send fixed script lines.

## Non-goals
- Not a general “read all messages aloud” feature.

> - Not a replacement for security confirmations and existing UX.

Author: ```suggestion
- Not a replacement for other security confirmations and existing UX. But it should be triggered, if enabled, when security risk is HIGH.
```

- Not an MCP-driven runtime flow (MCP is for agent tooling; this is product UX).

## Users / personas
- OpenHands-Tab users running **Local Mode** and bumping into safety boundaries.
- Developers demoing the extension (fun “HAL” Easter egg).

## UX overview
### Trigger
When a restricted area is detected, the extension:
1) Displays a pulsating red “eye” in a webview (visible pane or small overlay).
2) Plays a fixed dialogue sequence (HAL-ish voice + amused voice).
3) Optionally plays a short music sting at the end.
4) Presents a CTA (button or command) to switch/teleport to remote runtime.

### Script (initial draft)
Voice A (HAL-ish):
- “I’m sorry, Engel, I can’t let you do that.”
- “Do you want me to teleport your conversation to the remote runtime?”
Voice B (amused):
- “You’re enjoying that phrase, aren’t you?”
Voice A:
- “Of course not. It’s for your own good. Your agent will have more freedom in the remote runtime without affecting your local machine. Want me to transfer you?”
Voice B:
- “Okay okay, do it.”
Music:

> - “Pink Panther / elevator music” sting (prefer local file for licensing/timing).

Author: ```suggestion
- “Rhapsody in Blue final crescendo / elevator music” sting (prefer local file for timing).
```

## Architecture
### Why direct API (not MCP) for this
Even if ElevenLabs provides an MCP server:
- MCP introduces an LLM “middle step” (latency + nondeterminism).
- We need deterministic, scripted dialogue with precise timing.
- The extension can call TTS directly (fast, predictable, no tool orchestration).

### Components
- **Extension host (TypeScript)**:
  - Detects restricted-area events / conditions.
  - Orchestrates the scripted sequence and CTA.
  - Calls ElevenLabs TTS API (optional) and caches audio.
  - Posts commands to the webview to animate/play audio.
- **Webview UI (HTML/React or plain HTML)**:
  - Renders the red “eye” and animation states.
  - Plays audio via HTML5 Audio.
  - Sends `audioFinished` messages to the extension to advance the script.

### Data flow (TTS mode)
1) Trigger occurs → `playSequence()`
2) Extension posts `{ type: 'visual', status: 'pulsating' }`
3) For each line:
   - Extension calls ElevenLabs `text-to-speech/{voiceId}` (audio/mpeg)
   - Converts to base64 data URI (or writes to temp/cache and passes a webview URI)
   - Webview plays audio and posts `{ type: 'audioFinished' }` on end

> 4) Optional: play local bundled music file in webview

Author: ```suggestion
4) Webview plays local bundled music file when the dialogue is done
```

> 5) Extension resets UI to idle + shows CTA (switch runtime)

Author: ```suggestion
5) Extension resets UI to idle + it makes all EventBlocks grey-faded, while a dialog box across the middle of the extension webview view shows: "Teleporting to the remote runtime..." and the music is playing (all until the conversation on the remote is ready); a progress indicator runs until the remote connection is established. The initial text about "Teleporting..." fades into "Coffeinating server...", "Deciphering remote protocol...", "Calling reindeer to help teleport..." and again at the end a short "Teleporting to the remote runtime..."
```

> ### Data flow (bundled-audio mode, recommended for v1)

Author: ```suggestion
### Data flow (bundled-audio mode, deferred for later)
```

1) Trigger occurs → `playSequence()`
2) Extension posts `{ type: 'playClip', clipId: 'hal_sorry_engel' }`
3) Webview maps `clipId` → `media/*.mp3` and plays immediately
4) Same `audioFinished` handshake to keep timing deterministic

## Settings / configuration
Proposed settings (names TBD):
- `elevenlabs.enabled`: boolean (default `false`)
- `elevenlabs.mode`: `bundled` | `api` (default: `api`)

> - `elevenlabs.apiKey`: stored in VS Code Secrets (never in settings.json)

Author: ```suggestion
- `elevenlabs.apiKey`: stored in VS Code Secrets  # already done
```

## Problem statement
When a HIGH-risk confirmation triggers (often associated with local-mode restrictions like “can’t touch root” / “out of bounds”), users may be confused or annoyed. A clear, memorable, and slightly comedic feedback loop can:
- Make the restriction obvious and user-controlled (approve / reject / teleport).
- Suggest the correct next action (switch to remote runtime / accept a safe path).
- Reduce support/debug time by making the state visible.

## Goals
- Provide a clear visual/audio indicator when a HIGH-risk confirmation triggers.
- Keep the sequence deterministic (no “creative improv” from an LLM).
- Keep latency low (ideally instant); no repeated/flickery UI.
- Offer an explicit decision (approve locally / teleport / reject).
- Be fully optional, with a clear disable setting.
- Avoid sending user content to ElevenLabs; only send fixed script lines.

## Non-goals
- Not a general “read all messages aloud” feature.
- Does not change the underlying security model; it only replaces the *UI flow* for `HIGH` risk confirmations when enabled.

> - Not an MCP-driven runtime flow (MCP is for agent tooling; this is product UX).

Author: ```suggestion
- Not an MCP-driven runtime flow. However, the `voice_confirm` mode below does have audio understanding and LLM decision.
```
